
Dataset : 
Online Sales Data Visualization Analysis. 
Source : From kaggle, the input data set is taken from the kaggle website , 
https://www.kaggle.com/code/recepberk/online-sales-data-visualization-analysis/input?select=Online+Sales+Data.csv 
Key Attributes : Date, Product Category, Product Name, Units Sold, Unit Price . 

Goals : 

Perform the Comprehensive Analysis of online sales data to determine or answer the questions such 

1.Which are the top most selling products ? 
2.Which region gives most revenue ? 

Answering these questions, it helps in determining companies to apply strategies like to expand their resources or infrastructure where sales are high . 
Talk to product supplies to determine the supply chain requirements for high demand products sold by the company. 

There can be many other analysis or questions can be answered, based on the feedback from my known friends , these are the basic questions to get answered before we look into any complex questions. 

Tasks: 

Following the design techniques, please see some Design Types chosen to answer those questions. 

Bar Chart :  We would like to use the Bar chart Visualization type to determine the top most selling product. 

Pie Chart : In order to answer the question which region gives most revenue we can use either Pie Chart or the Bar Chart to determine it. 

In our project we will later discuss the comparison between these two types. 


Summary : 

For the given sales data which contains total units sold and Unit price, these elements acts will help us to perform the certain analysis such as 
 - Descriptive Analysis :  To perform the descriptive analysis in determining the top selling products . 
 - Time Series Analysis : Identify the trends over time, i.e determine the sales trend over the given period of time, we would like to determine the sales trend over the months. 
	- Behavior Analysis : Our Solution also would like to answer some questions with respect the customer behavior based on the regional attributes, determine the total sales behavior per region . 

The reason to select the above analysis and breakdown of the tasks listed above will help us to answer the questions related to Goal, Means, Characteristics , Target , Roles etc of the Data Visualization. 

Solution Approach: 

We will be using the pandas python library in order to read the data csv file, this files contains 240 Rows and 9 Columns, and our primary focus on columns would Date, Product Category, Product Name, Units sold, Unit Price and Region. 

Step1: 
  The First step of our solution includes the Data preparation or Cleansing, which is to perform some basic exploratory analysis by looking at the data . 
We are using the panda library to read the data and drop any duplicates from the data frame. 
Format the Date column and convert it to date time object and add Month element to the data frame, since this is required . 

Step2: 

Apply the Visualization techniques to summarize the Total Revenue and determine the total revenue per product Category, i.e we will group by Product Category and then apply basic Bar Chart. 

Please look at the file summary_by_category.html file generated using altair library , we are exporting our Charts to html file. 

Based on this Chart, we can easily notice that most revenue is generated by selling the products under "Electronics" category and least revenue category belongs to "Books" . 

Step3: 

In our solution, we did identified the Product Category which generates more revenue, and our analysis is to determine the top selling products, as a next step we need to identify the Top Selling products. 

The file name top_10_product_by_total_revenue.html contains the details of top selling products based on the revenue. 

We can see that the Canon EOS R5 Camera is the top selling product based on the total revenue. 

Step4: 

Next we would like to see the top selling product per region, this will answer which region generated more sales and revenue. 

Please check the file name top_proudct_per_region.html, this contains details w.r.t to top products sold in each region and the tool tip provides the product name and percentage of sales compared to total sales per region. 

Evaluation : 

In order to evaluate the visualizations presented in the above solution, we would like to take the experimental approach and measure quantitively  on the solution. 

	1. Accuracy:  
        The most important evaluation factor is to look at the accuracy of the data presented by the charts, if the values displayed are actually matches the correct calculation. This can be checked by printing the values of the data frame. 
    We found out that the calculations were correctly measured. 

	2. Design and Aesthetics :      
	Validate if the design and color scheme applied is matching the requirements, and colors are appealing and pleasing to the user.  And ensure that the style and front , labels are correctly readable.  
   3.   Interactive and Clarity : 
           Design Visuals are interactive in nature and users are able to see the clarity in the presentation. Are there any useful tool tips included for user to provide the more details . 

Based on the above evaluation factors adopted in our solution, we found that it matches the requirements . 

The solution or visuals was shown to one my friend who is product manager and expert in data science , he did provided some useful insights on how this can be further approached. In other words how to add more detailed analysis further and dig further into it. 

Conclusion : 
    I would like to conclude that, in our project the data visualization methods and evaluations were applied to answer the most important questions for the online sales data. 
 We can see easily see the top products and it explains which are region are generating more revenue. 

   Improvements: 
   
  Based on the feedback received from friends , this can be further enhanced by adding much more details. 
We could generate line graph visualization to answer some more insightful questions such as 
    - Which products is sold at different seasons ? To add the seasonal flavor to the dataset, like thanks giving is expected to see a rise in sales of Electronic Gadgets like iphones ,tablets etc. 
  -  To determine the trend for a specific product ? If they were able to get total sales in comparison to total inventory items. 

PS: Also attached the python notebook containing code solution. Please use it in your notebooks, this is not a ready to execute. 
